.TH "polyglot-research" "7" "" "Runtime Documentation" "Polyglot Devcontainers"
.SH NAME
polyglot-research \- LLM-assisted research experiment runner workflow
.SH PURPOSE
This page explains the supported workflow for the research runner image.
.SH WHEN TO USE
Use this image for Python plus Node.js research artifacts that run TypeScript
test harnesses, invoke LLM APIs, and produce structured result artifacts.
.SH PRIMARY COMMANDS
.IP
.EX
task init
task test
task experiment
task report
task ci
.EE
.SH WORKFLOW
The image provides Python, Node.js, npm, pnpm, \f[CR]task\f[R],
\f[CR]gitleaks\f[R], and a pre-built Python virtual environment at
\f[CR]/opt/research-venv\f[R].
.PP
The image venv is automatically first on \f[CR]PATH\f[R] and includes:
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]pyyaml\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]openai\f[R]
.PP
Project-local lockfiles remain authoritative for experiment-specific code.
Use \f[CR]npm ci\f[R] for Node projects with a
\f[CR]package-lock.json\f[R]. If a project needs different Python packages,
create and activate a project-local \f[CR].venv\f[R]; it will shadow the
image venv.
.PP
LLM experiments must receive credentials at runtime. Do not bake API keys into
the image or repository. Devcontainers should pass the host value through
\f[CR]remoteEnv\f[R].
.SH OUTPUTS / ARTIFACTS
Research projects commonly write:
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]results/\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]archive/\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]scenario/runs/\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
generated reports under project-owned paths
.PP
Do not commit dependency directories such as \f[CR]node_modules\f[R],
\f[CR].venv\f[R], \f[CR].pytest_cache\f[R], or \f[CR]__pycache__\f[R].
.SH COMMON FAILURES
.IP \(bu 2
Running the full LLM experiment without \f[CR]OPENAI_API_KEY\f[R].
.IP \(bu 2
Treating \f[CR]task ci\f[R] as an API-consuming task. CI should validate
deterministic no-key paths.
.IP \(bu 2
Committing local dependency directories instead of lockfiles and outputs.
.SH GUIDANCE
.IP \(bu 2
Keep deterministic validation separate from API-consuming experiment runs.
.IP \(bu 2
Use \f[CR]task ci\f[R] for no-key validation.
.IP \(bu 2
Use \f[CR]task experiment\f[R] only when the API key and budget are
intentionally available.
.IP \(bu 2
Capture experiment outputs as reviewable artifacts.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]polyglot(7)\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]polyglot-python(7)\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]polyglot-task-contract(7)\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]polyglot-security(7)\f[R]
