.TH "polyglot-latex" "7" "" "Runtime Documentation" "Polyglot Devcontainers"
.SH NAME
polyglot-latex \- reproducible LaTeX paper build workflow
.SH PURPOSE
This page explains the supported workflow for the LaTeX image.
.SH WHEN TO USE
Use this image for academic paper repositories that need headless,
container-first PDF builds with LaTeX, BibTeX, TikZ, and \f[CR]latexmk\f[R].
.SH PRIMARY COMMANDS
.IP
.EX
task init
task build
task lint
task test
task ci
.EE
.SH WORKFLOW
The image provides a focused TeX Live environment plus the universal Polyglot
tooling contract:
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]pdflatex\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]bibtex\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]latexmk\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]pdfinfo\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]chktex\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]texcount\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]task\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]git\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]gitleaks\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]pre-commit\f[R]
.PP
The expected project convention is that \f[CR]main.tex\f[R] lives at the
workspace root. Multi-file documents should use relative paths such as
\f[CR]\\input{sections/introduction}\f[R].
.PP
The normal build command is:
.IP
.EX
latexmk -pdf -interaction=nonstopmode main.tex
.EE
.SH OUTPUTS / ARTIFACTS
LaTeX builds produce \f[CR]main.pdf\f[R] and intermediate files such as
\f[CR]main.aux\f[R], \f[CR]main.bbl\f[R], and \f[CR]main.log\f[R]. Use
\f[CR]task clean\f[R] to remove generated files when needed.
.SH COMMON FAILURES
.IP \(bu 2
Running \f[CR]latexmk\f[R] from a directory other than the document root.
.IP \(bu 2
Missing bibliography files referenced by \f[CR]\\bibliography{...}\f[R].
.IP \(bu 2
Depending on packages that are not installed in the image.
.IP \(bu 2
Committing generated PDFs before verifying the reproducible build path.
.SH GUIDANCE
.IP \(bu 2
Keep source files and bibliography files in the repository.
.IP \(bu 2
Treat generated PDFs as release artifacts unless the project explicitly
chooses to version them.
.IP \(bu 2
Use \f[CR]pdfinfo\f[R] in \f[CR]task test\f[R] to verify that the PDF was
actually produced.
.SH SEE ALSO
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]polyglot(7)\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]polyglot-task-contract(7)\f[R]
.IP \(bu 2
\f[CR]polyglot-security(7)\f[R]
